.\" Copyright (c) 2023-2024 Aisha Tammy <aisha@bsd.ac>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: January 9 2024 $
.Dt LXD-DYNDNS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lxd-dyndns
.Nd LXD dynamic DNS client
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm lxd-dyndns
.Op Fl d Ar debug_level
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl h , -help
.Op Fl n
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
monitors the LXD API endpoint for container and VM changes and performs DDNS
updates to keep DNS records up to date.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Fl d Ar debug_level
.Pp
Set the debug level of output .
Valid options are
.Ar debug ,
.Ar info ,
.Ar warn ,
.Ar error
or
.Ar critical .
.It Fl f Ar file
.Pp
Specify an alternative configuration file.
The default is
.Pa /etc/lxd-dyndns.conf .
.Pp
.It Fl h , -help
.Pp
Show the help message and exit.
.Pp
.It Fl n
.Pp
Configtest mode.
Only check if the configuration file is valid.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lxd-dyndns.conf 5
