.\" Copyright (c) 2023-2024 Aisha Tammy <aisha@bsd.ac>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: January 9 2024 $
.Dt LXD-DYNDNS.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lxd-dyndns.conf
.Nd Configuration file for
.Xr lxd-dyndns 1
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the configuration file for
.Xr lxd-dyndns 1 ,
which is read from
.Pa /etc/lxd-dyndns.conf
by default.
.Pp
The configuration file follows the
.Cm toml
format, divided into two categories, top level options and per project options.
Both categories support the same set of options, and per project options can
override the top level options.
.Pp
Currently the following options are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It cache_dir
.Pp
Path to the directory used for storing the program cache.
The default value is
.Pa /var/lib/lxd-dyndns .
.Pp
.It dns_key_name
.Pp
TSIG key ID used for dynamic DNS queries to the nameserver.
.Pp
.It dns_key_secret
.Pp
TSIG key secret used for dynnamic DNS queries to the nameserver.
.Pp
.It dns_port
.Pp
Port number that the DNS server is listening on.
The default is
.Ar 53 .
.Pp
.It dns_server
.Pp
IP address or FQDN of the DNS server to use for managing records.
The default is
.Ar 127.0.0.1 .
.Pp
.It dns_transport
.Pp
Protocol to use for connecting to the nameserver.
Choices are
.Ar TCP
or
.Ar UDP .
The default is
.Ar UDP .
.Pp
.It dns_zone
.Pp
DNS zone under which to create the instance records.
.Pp
.It ipv4_prefixes
.Pp
A list of valid IPv4 prefixes, that will be used to filter IPs on instances and
will be added to the DNS records.
.Pp
.It ipv6_prefixes
.Pp
A list of valid IPv6 prefixes, that will be used to filter IPs on instances and
will be added to the DNS records.
.Pp
.It lxd_server
.Pp
API endpoint for the LXD server.
.Pp
.It lxd_client_cert
.Pp
Public certificate used for authentication to the API endpoint by the client.
.Pp
.It lxd_client_key
.Pp
Private certificate used for authentication to the API endpoint by the client.
.Pp
.It lxd_verify
.Pp
Boolean to control if the client should verify the API endpoint's certificate.
The default is
.Ar true .
.Pp
.It refresh_interval
.Pp
Time delay, in seconds, between refreshing data for a project.
The default is
.Ar 30 .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset width
cache_dir = "/var/lib/lxd-dyndns"

[projects.k8s]
dns_server = "192.168.2.1"
dns_port = 8053
dns_transport = "TCP"
dns_key_name = "knot_lxd"
dns_key_secret = "Zj7NdR9/6DJonRuTt/++QgMyvSlD4Ndv+i5SvGtGY3Q="
dns_zone = "lxd.domain.tld."

lxd_server = "https://lxd-leader.domain.tld:8443"
lxd_verify = false
lxd_client_cert = "/etc/ssl/lxd-dyndns/client.crt"
lxd_client_key = "/etc/ssl/lxd-dyndns/client.key"

ipv6_prefixes = [ "dead:beef::0/96" ]
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lxd-dyndns 1
